[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: Make a function gensymf that
makes a function that generates symbols.
So we're taking the generator idea and
we're gonna try to do something
practical with it now.
So gensymf is a symbol generator or
gensymf is a factory that makes
symbol generators, or
things that make serial numbers.
So we designate a serial
number with a prefix, and
so you can send it any string and
that becomes the prefix string, and
then we will get a series of
strings starting with that symbol.
So we're gonna make two generators
this time from the same factory.
We're gonna make the G series and
the H series and when we call them,
we'll get G1, H1, G2, H2.
>> Douglas: Let's
look at gensymf,
>> Douglas: Gensymf takes a prefix string,
it creates a number
which it's gonna use for
keeping track of where
it is in the sequence.
It will return a function which
will add one to that number, and
return the result of concatenating
the number to the prefix.
So who got something that works?
Good.
Anyone do anything
substantially different?
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And you cast in,
then it's prefix to the string,
can you pass it in digit.
Is that first thing?
>> Douglas: That's a wise
precaution, yeah.
Anybody else?
>> Speaker 2: I used find function.
>> Douglas: Use a find function
that's going to.
So this is an example, we've seen a number
of these where we've got a factory
function which then makes something
which will do some work, to get
usually a generator, but it could be there
are lots of different kinds of functions.
But they're both functions,
it's just one is nested in the other.
And in fact if we nest further, if we
put another function outside of this,
we could make a factory, factory.
And you can wrap that with a factory,
factory, factory.
So just for fun, let's look at what this
would look like if it were a factory,
factory.
>> Douglas: So gensymff is the factory,
factory and we're gonna pass the increment
function and the initial seed value
to gensymff in a produce of produces a
function that works exactly like gensymf.
And it'll make the sequences right, and
we've done things like this
a couple of times already.
So I'm just gonna show you the thing
cuz we've already done this one.
So it looks very similar to patterns
we've seen before, where the factory,
factory is supplying values
that go into the generator.
And now, so
we can automate the making of factories.
Now, the interesting thing about this
one is that statement there where
we're creating the number
variable which is gonna hold
the value that is being used to
generate the sequence numbers.
So if we were to move that up one line,
so that it's not in the factory anymore,
but it's in the factory, factory.
That would change the visibility
of that variable so
it would be seen by all of the generators.
So instead of generating G1, H1, G2,
H2, we would generate G1, H2, G3, H4.
That's a really interesting
change in behavior.
It's just moving one variable
declaration one place to another.
So we've been dealing with closure and
we can we saw that we can have things that
are global and things that are local, and
things that are sort of in between, but
there can be more of those in betweens.
And if we get into nesting
things in useful ways, we have
tremendous control over the visibility and
the lifetime of the variables, and
can do interesting things
to affect their behavior.
How about that, any questions about that?
Ready for another one or
do you want to take a break?
Let's do another one, sure why not.
So everybody remembers fibonacci, right?
You did fibonacci numbers in school.
So fibonacci was
an important mathematician.
He discovered a lot of good stuff, but
the only thing we seem to remember
is the fibonacci sequence.
In their infinite number
of Fibonacci Sequences, but
mostly we only remember the famous one,
which started with 0 and 1, and
that's what we're gonna be doing now.
So we're gonna make a factory which
will make a Fibonacci generator.
And you'll seed the factory with
the first two numbers in the sequence.
So everybody remember how
Fibonacci numbers work?
Well let's review.
So the Fibonacci sequence will
be a sequence of integers,
you specify the first two
integers in the sequence,
the third number will be
the sum of the first two.
The fourth number will be the sum
of the previous two and so on.
So the first numbers we get are 0 and 1,
because those are the ones we provide.
Then the next 1, will be 1 because
that's the sum of 0 and 1,
the next one will be 2,
because it's the sum of 1 and 1.
The next will be 3,
cuz it's a sum of 1 and 2,
next be 5 because it's the sum of 2 and
3, and the next in the series will be?
8, exactly.
So this was a tricky one, wasn't it?
The Fibonacci sequence
itself is totally trivial.
It's three, it's simple statements,
but getting the first two numbers
to come out but that was the trick.
So first off you got something that works?
Like graduations this one was hard, so
let’s look at a number of
approaches that we could take.
So here's one, there is the Fibonacci
function there in the box.
So that's it, and
then we've got an if statement
around it versus which statement which
asks, where are we in the sequence?
At the first at the beginning of sequence
put out the first number, otherwise
put out the second number, otherwise
use the Fibonacci function and do that.
And this works, it absolutely works,
who took this approach or
something like it maybe used and
if instead, but basically.
Yeah, you've got a variable which is
telling you where you are in the sequence.
This is a completely, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Except for
case one, you're inputting a and b.
A and b don't necessarily equal 0 and
1, if a is something other than 0 for
case one.
>> Douglas: Right.
>> Speaker 3: You need to return a+ b,
don't you?
>> Douglas: No.
>> Speaker 3: You don't know the rule.
>> Speaker 2: You're switching on i.
>> Douglas: I got i which is telling me
where I am in the sequence.
>> Speaker 3: I know.
>> Douglas: Which isn't the value I'm at
the sequence just how many
numbers have I looked at.
>> Speaker 3: I know.
>> Douglas: So if I'm looking at the first
number, I output a, and if I look at
the second number i is 1, I output b.
Otherwise I output a + b.
>> Speaker 3: So if you want
the Fibonacci, if your starting elements
are 5 and 7, the first number's 5,
second number's 7, third number's 12.
>> Douglas: Right.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas: Yeah, that's how they
work.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I was thinking that you added the first.
First, you took the second
then you added the first two.
Then you, no,
it's not until you get to the-
>> Douglas: It's the first two numbers,
then you add.
>> Speaker 3: Right,
because they tell you, got it.
>> Douglas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Is y incremented or not?
>> Douglas: Yeah, well instead of adding
1, I set it to 1 because I know it's 0.
And beyond that I don't need to increment
it, once I get past the first two cases,
I don't care what i is anymore.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas: Okay, so
completely acceptable this is
a reasonable way to do it.
I would argue that a reasonably
intelligent person could figure out what
this code is doing and
that's most of what we want code to do so.
This is good, it's okay.
My complaint with it is, it's a fairly
big function and only that much of it is
concerned with the Fibonacci things, so
it just feels kind of loopsided to me.
So here's another approach.
In this one, I kind of permuted
the statements of the Fibonacci
sequence in order to delay
the output of the first one,
or to cause the first two
numbers to get output.
So who did something like this?
Yeah, so this is probably
the most optimal solution.
It's gonna be the smallest code,
the fastest performance not that either of
those matter in real life, but
it does have that advantage.
The disadvantage of this is I'd hate to
be the guy that has to debug it, right?
>> Speaker 4: I said b = a + next
instead.
>> Douglas: Yeah,
there are variations on it, but
it's basically the same idea.
So another approach we could take
is recognizing that we're making
a generator and we already have some
tools for constructing generators.
So here's another approach,
I've got my Fibonacci generator here,
which will give me the next number, I just
need to get the first two on top of it.
So I'm going to make a special generato,
and
I'm gonna start by taking identityf which
was the first interesting function that
we wrote this morning, that you
thought had no practical application.
It turns out what identifyf
is is a constant generator,
it will always produce the same value.
So I'm gonna use that to make generators
and then I'm gonna use the limit function
that we wrote earlier to cut off
the sequence, so I only get one.
So I got a pair of things and I can
then concatenate those two together and
then concatenate that on
to the Fibonacci function.
So who did that?
[LAUGH] Of course nobody would do that.
>> Speaker 4: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: And if you're, yeah, so
there's that.
And if I were gonna be doing this a lot,
I would take limit identityf,
and encapsulate that into
something which would make
sequences of one more compactly or
we could do this.
A similar thing, we take the element
function that we wrote earlier make
an array containing
the first two things and
concatenate that onto
the Fibonacci generator.
So who did that?
No, no.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Douglas: Very, very good, brilliant.